REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 4b39b76d-5993-4ef5-95ef-3872932f7db3

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CPR
Title: Certification Participation Requirements (CPR)

OVERVIEW:
This chapter includes specific certification participation requirements (CPRs)
that apply to the certification process and are required to maintain a
certification award. These differ from review eligibility criteria in that the
certification process may be initiated even when all CPRs have not yet been met.
For an organization seeking certification for the first time, compliance with
the CPRs is assessed during the initial review. For the certified program,
compliance with these requirements is assessed throughout the certification
cycle through on-site reviews, Evidence of Standards Compliance (ESC), and
periodic updates of organization-specific data and information. Organizations
are either compliant or not compliant with CPRs. When an organization does not
comply with a CPR, the organization generally will be assigned a Requirement for
Improvement (RFI) similar to noncompliance with a standard. However, refusal to
permit performance of an unscheduled or unannounced for-cause review (CPR 3) or
falsification of information (CPR 7) will immediately lead to a decision of Not
Certified. Any RFI can potentially impact the certification decision and follow-
up requirements, as determined by established certification decision rules
listed in “The Joint Commission Certification Process“ (CERT) chapter. Failure
to resolve an RFI has the potential to lead to loss of certification.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CPR 12
Description: The organization submits information to The Joint Commission as
required.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CPR.12 EP01 (EP 01)
   The organization meets all requirements for timely submission of data and
information to The Joint Commission. (See also CPR 7, EP 1)
Note: If information in an organization’s electronic application for
certification (E-App) leads to inaccuracies in the appropriate length of the
review and a longer review is required, the organization will incur the
additional costs of the longer review. In addition, if there is evidence that
the organization has intentionally falsified the information submitted to The
Joint Commission, the Information Accuracy and Truthfulness Policy and its
consequences will be applicable.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------