REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 22360255-5fb2-4cc7-a7be-24749ba87e31

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CPR
Title: Certification Participation Requirements (CPR)

OVERVIEW:
This chapter includes specific certification participation requirements (CPRs)
that apply to the certification process and are required to maintain a
certification award. These differ from review eligibility criteria in that the
certification process may be initiated even when all CPRs have not yet been met.
For an organization seeking certification for the first time, compliance with
the CPRs is assessed during the initial review. For the certified program,
compliance with these requirements is assessed throughout the certification
cycle through on-site reviews, Evidence of Standards Compliance (ESC), and
periodic updates of organization-specific data and information. Organizations
are either compliant or not compliant with CPRs. When an organization does not
comply with a CPR, the organization generally will be assigned a Requirement for
Improvement (RFI) similar to noncompliance with a standard. However, refusal to
permit performance of an unscheduled or unannounced for-cause review (CPR 3) or
falsification of information (CPR 7) will immediately lead to a decision of Not
Certified. Any RFI can potentially impact the certification decision and follow-
up requirements, as determined by established certification decision rules
listed in “The Joint Commission Certification Process“ (CERT) chapter. Failure
to resolve an RFI has the potential to lead to loss of certification.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CPR 07
Description: The organization provides accurate information throughout the
certification process.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CPR.07 EP01 (EP 01)
   The organization provides accurate information throughout the certification
process. (See also CPR 12, EP 1)

Note 1: Information may be received in the following ways: - Provided verbally -
Obtained through direct observation by, or in an interview or any other type of
communication with, a Joint Commission employee - Derived from documents
supplied by the organization to The Joint Commission - Submitted electronically
by the organization to The Joint Commission
Note 2: For the purposes of this requirement, falsification is defined as the
fabrication, in whole or in part, of any information provided by an applicant or
certified organization to The Joint Commission. This includes redrafting,
reformatting, or deleting document content. However, the organization may submit
supporting material that explains the original information submitted to The
Joint Commission. These additional materials must be properly identified, dated,
and accompanied by the original documents.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------