REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: cdcc6747-ad99-48e6-a517-ca53791ea09d

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSPR
Title: Program Management (DSPR)

OVERVIEW:
Providing high-quality care requires an infrastructure capable of supporting the
activities of the patient and practitioner. Leaders must commit resources to
support, evaluate, and improve services. Commitments such as these require
leaders to know their organization’s strengths, challenges, and areas for
improvement. They must also have a thorough understanding of their patient
population so that the care they provide is relevant to their population’s
needs. The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Designing and
implementing the program - Evaluating the program - Offering a relevant program
for patients - Providing safe and adequate access to care - Conducting the
program in an ethical manner - Supplying reference resources to practitioners -
Offering the program in safe and accessible facilities Please note that not all
standards or elements of performance apply to every disease-specific care
program. For example, disease management service providers may facilitate or
support care by telephone interventions but may not have a physical site where
patients are seen or gathered. In these cases, the facility standards may not
apply. Each disease-specific care program should consider its individual
circumstances and services.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSPR 01.01.01
Description: The organization demonstrates its commitment to the disease-
specific care program, provides leadership structure, and determines members of
its interdisciplinary team.

RATIONALE:
The program’s performance depends on how well the leaders work together to carry
out the responsibilities within the disease-specific care program.
Responsibilities may be shared by a variety of leaders, including senior
managers and the leaders of the organized medical staff.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSPR.01.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The leader(s) of the organization demonstrates commitment to the disease-
specific care program, including by allocating financial and other resources to
support the program.

2. DSPR.01.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The leader(s) of the organization identifies a medical director(s) or
physician champion(s) who is qualified through education, training, or
experience to define, implement, and provide clinical guidance and
administrative leadership for the disease-specific care program.

Requirement Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The program appoints a physician with sufficient knowledge of neurology and
cerebrovascular disease as the acute stroke ready program’s medical director to
provide administrative leadership and clinical oversight to the stroke program.
Note: The ASRH's medical director does not have to be board certified in
neurology or neurosurgery but must have sufficient knowledge of cerebrovascular
disease to provide administrative leadership, clinical guidance, and input to
the program.


3. DSPR.01.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   The leader(s) of the organization identifies an individual(s) who is
qualified through education, training, or experience to collaborate with the
medical director(s) or physician champion(s) to define, implement, and direct
the disease-specific care program.

Requirement Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The acute stroke ready program appoints an individual who is qualified
through education, training, or experience and who collaborates with the medical
director to define, implement, and direct the program.
Note: This role may be an individual’s primary job responsibility or may be in
addition to other duties.

4. DSPR.01.01.01 EP4 (EP 4)
   The leader(s) of the organization and the disease-specific care program
identify, in writing, the composition of the interdisciplinary team.

Requirements Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The program identifies a core stroke team that includes, at a minimum, a
nurse (or nurse practitioner or physician assistant) and a physician. Each
member of the core stroke team has basic training in acute stroke care as
defined by the program.
b. The program documents the roles and responsibilities for interdisciplinary
team members including the core stroke team.
c. The program defines its interdisciplinary team so that it reflects the needs
of its patients.

5. DSPR.01.01.01 EP5 (EP 5)
   The leader(s) of the organization and the disease-specific care program
determine the number and skill mix of staff needed to support the delivery of
safe, quality care, treatment, and services, as appropriate to the scope and
complexity of the disease-specific care program.
Note: The number and skill mix of staff needed may be demonstrated through unit
staffing plans and/or on-call schedules, as applicable.

Requirements Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The program appoints an acute stroke team to manage patients who present with
stroke.
b. The program has at least one physician, nurse practitioner, or physician
assistant on site to supervise patient care, order medication, and manage
emergent issues.
Note: The nurse practitioner or physician assistant must have prescriptive
authority and the ability to consult with a covering physician if needed.
c. The program has designated physicians or other licensed practitioners
knowledgeable in the diagnosis and treatment of stroke who are responsible for
responding to patients with an acute stroke 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
d. Emergency department physicians and other licensed practitioners have 24-hour
access, either in person or via telemedicine, to a physician who can provide a
timely, informed consultation for stroke care when additional clinical expertise
is needed.
Note: If the emergency department physicians or other licensed practitioners are
privileged in the diagnosis and treatment of stroke, then access to bedside or
telemedicine consultation is not necessary.

6. DSPR.01.01.01 EP6 (EP 6)
   The leader(s) of the organization and the disease-specific care program
protect the integrity of clinical decision-making by supporting and promoting
collaboration and a culture of safety among the interdisciplinary team and other
staff involved in the delivery of care, treatment, and services.

7. DSPR.01.01.01 EP7 (EP 7)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process for how
it will receive and resolve complaints and grievances in a timely manner.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------