REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: eed1383d-1d53-4f1a-856f-8c5a77a640a2

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSPR
Title: Program Management (DSPR)

OVERVIEW:
Providing high-quality care requires an infrastructure capable of supporting the
activities of the patient and practitioner. Leaders must commit resources to
support, evaluate, and improve services. Commitments such as these require
leaders to know their organization’s strengths, challenges, and areas for
improvement. They must also have a thorough understanding of their patient
population so that the care they provide is relevant to their population’s
needs. The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Designing and
implementing the program - Evaluating the program - Offering a relevant program
for patients - Providing safe and adequate access to care - Conducting the
program in an ethical manner - Supplying reference resources to practitioners -
Offering the program in safe and accessible facilities Please note that not all
standards or elements of performance apply to every disease-specific care
program. For example, disease management service providers may facilitate or
support care by telephone interventions but may not have a physical site where
patients are seen or gathered. In these cases, the facility standards may not
apply. Each disease-specific care program should consider its individual
circumstances and services.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSPR 02.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program makes certain that physicians,
other licensed practitioners, and staff are qualified and competent.

RATIONALE:
The safety and quality of care, treatment, and services are highly dependent on
the people who work in the disease-specific care program. Therefore, the
complexity of care provided by the program defines the skill sets and the number
of qualified and competent staff needed to perform various patient-care tasks.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSPR.02.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The leader(s) of the organization develops and implements a process to verify
the credentials of physicians, other licensed practitioners, and staff to make
certain that they are practicing within the scope of their licensure,
privileging, certification, registration, and training, as applicable to their
job roles and responsibilities in the disease-specific care program.

2. DSPR.02.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The disease-specific care program defines in writing the initial and ongoing
competencies for staff who provide disease-specific care, treatment, and
services.

3. DSPR.02.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   The disease-specific care program provides initial and ongoing education and
training, at least annually and at intervals determined by the program, to
maintain or increase competency for staff as applicable to their roles and
responsibilities in the care, treatment, and services provided. Documentation is
required.
Note: The program considers the needs of its staff, patients, and communities
served; program goals and objectives; and current evidence-based literature when
developing education and training.

Requirement Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The acute stroke ready hospital makes educational opportunities available to
prehospital personnel, as defined by the program.

4. DSPR.02.01.01 EP4 (EP 4)
   The leader(s) of the organization develops and implements a process to
evaluate the competency of each physician, other licensed practitioner, and
staff member who provides disease-specific care, treatment, and services at
intervals determined by the program. Documentation is required.
Note: The process for ongoing professional practice evaluation is determined by
the organization’s medical staff bylaws and applicable law and regulation.

5. DSPR.02.01.01 EP5 (EP 5)
   The leader(s) of the organization and the disease-specific care program
develop and implement a process to make certain that the physicians and other
licensed practitioners are privileged to provide disease-specific care,
treatment, and services as defined by the organization’s medical staff process
and applicable law and regulation.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------