REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 60259d81-4d9c-463e-ba37-0b39ce406476

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSPR
Title: Program Management (DSPR)

OVERVIEW:
Providing high-quality care requires an infrastructure capable of supporting the
activities of the patient and practitioner. Leaders must commit resources to
support, evaluate, and improve services. Commitments such as these require
leaders to know their organization’s strengths, challenges, and areas for
improvement. They must also have a thorough understanding of their patient
population so that the care they provide is relevant to their population’s
needs. The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Designing and
implementing the program - Evaluating the program - Offering a relevant program
for patients - Providing safe and adequate access to care - Conducting the
program in an ethical manner - Supplying reference resources to practitioners -
Offering the program in safe and accessible facilities Please note that not all
standards or elements of performance apply to every disease-specific care
program. For example, disease management service providers may facilitate or
support care by telephone interventions but may not have a physical site where
patients are seen or gathered. In these cases, the facility standards may not
apply. Each disease-specific care program should consider its individual
circumstances and services.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSPR 04.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program develops and implements program
goals, policies, and procedures for the care, treatment, and services it
provides.

RATIONALE:
An integrated and collaborative team approach for developing the disease-
specific care program’s mission, vision, and goals makes certain that the
delivery of care, treatment and services will be provided safely, effectively,
and equitably to the population(s) the program serves.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSPR.04.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The leader(s) of the organization and the disease-specific care program
define, in writing, the program’s mission, goals, and scope of services
provided.

Requirement Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The program collaborates with emergency medical services (EMS) providers to
make certain of the following:
- The program has a relationship with EMS providers that includes notification
when a patient with suspected stroke is being transported to the acute stroke
ready hospital.
- The program has access to treatment protocols utilized by EMS providers and
prehospital personnel for emergency stroke care and transport of suspected
stroke patients to stroke centers.
- The program works collaboratively with EMS to make certain that providers have
specific training in the use of at least one accepted stroke field assessment
tool.

2. DSPR.04.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The disease-specific care program identifies which services will be provided
directly or through referral, consultation, transfer, contractual agreements, or
contracted services.

Requirements Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The program has a written transfer protocol with at least one primary stroke
center or one comprehensive stroke center or a stroke center of comparable
capability.
b. Written transfer protocols with accepting facilities include the following:
- Contact names
- Contact phone numbers
- Ability to transfer 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
- Ground and air transportation options
c. There is a written protocol for transfer that includes communication and
feedback from the receiving facility.
d. Protocols for care related to patient referrals demonstrate that the program
does the following:
- Addresses processes for transferring patients to another facility
- Evaluates the receiving organization’s ability to meet the patient’s and
family’s needs
e. For patients transferring to a higher-level stroke center, patients should
leave the organization within two hours of emergency department arrival or when
medically stable. The program includes time parameters and transfer procedures
to the stroke center.
f. The program has access to stroke expertise 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Note: Access to stroke expertise may be in person or via telemedicine. If via
telemedicine, there is the capability for a live interactive physical exam with
real-time viewing of the patient and their neuroimaging studies.
g. The program has the ability to complete initial laboratory tests on site 24
hours a day, 7 days a week.
Note: Laboratory tests may include a complete blood cell count with platelet
count, coagulation studies (prothrombin time, International Normalized Ratio),
blood chemistries, and troponin.
h. The program has the ability to perform computed tomography (CT) of the head
on site 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Note: A brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may be performed in lieu of a
head CT, if the same time parameters can be met in the acute setting.

3. DSPR.04.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   The disease-specific care program develops, implements, and revises written
program-specific protocols, policies, procedures, and/or order sets in
accordance with the current clinical practice guideline(s) it follows.

Requirements Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The program’s written protocols, policies, procedures, and/or order sets
include but are not limited to the following:
- Emergency and inpatient acute stroke response processes that are used to
notify physicians or other licensed practitioners who respond to the patients
presenting with acute ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week
- Emergency management care, including rapid assessment and prehospital
communication between emergency medical services staff, and medical
stabilization of the patient en route to the emergency department
- Indication and initiation of IV thrombolytic therapy
- The transfer of complex stroke patients to higher levels of care
- Dysphagia screening utilizing a reliable, evidence-based tool approved by the
interdisciplinary team
- Initiation of telemedicine, as applicable
Note 1: A telemedicine link is initiated within 20 minutes of the emergency
physician or acute stroke team determining it is necessary or within the time
frame specified in the contract, whichever is sooner.
Note 2: The program develops response time goals for care protocols in alignment
with current clinical practice guidelines.
b. The organization's formulary or medication list must include an IV
thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.
Note: If a program maintains more than one IV thrombolytic on formulary for the
treatment of acute ischemic stroke, written protocols are in place that define
medication selection and administration.

4. DSPR.04.01.01 EP4 (EP 4)
   The disease-specific care program complies with its organization's policies
and procedures (such as infection prevention and control, environment of care,
life safety, medication management) and applicable law and regulation when
providing care, treatment, and services.
Note 1: Joint Commission–accredited organizations comply with all accreditation
requirements.
Note 2: Non-Joint Commission–accredited organizations comply with the
requirements specified in Appendix A or Appendix B.

5. DSPR.04.01.01 EP5 (EP 5)
   The organization develops and implements a process to report, communicate,
mitigate, and/or resolve situations that may cause an abrupt disruption in the
delivery of care, treatment, and services.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------