REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: d74dd986-fac6-4312-8e40-c0e17b3a1084

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board
Regulatory Entity: Wisconsin

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: 450
Title: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: 450 071
Description: Wholesale distributors; licensure

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. 450.071.1 (1)
   No person may engage in the wholesale distribution of a prescription drug in
this state without obtaining a license from the board for each facility from
which the person distributes prescription drugs. The board shall exempt a
manufacturer that distributes prescription drugs or devices manufactured by the
manufacturer from licensing and other requirements under this section to the
extent the license or requirement is not required under federal law or
regulation, unless the board determines that it is necessary to apply a
requirement to a manufacturer.

2. 450.071.2 (2)
   An applicant shall submit a form provided by the board showing all of the
following and swear or affirm the truthfulness of each item in the application:
(a) The name, business address, and telephone number of the applicant.
(b) All trade or business names used by the applicant.
(c) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of contact persons for all
facilities used by the applicant for the storage, handling, and distribution of
prescription drugs.
(d) The type of ownership or operation for the applicant's business.
(e) If the applicant's wholesale distribution business is a partnership, the
name of each partner and the name of the partnership.
(f) If the applicant's wholesale distribution business is a corporation, the
name of each corporate officer and director, the name of the corporation, and
the state of incorporation.
(g) If the applicant's wholesale distribution business is a sole proprietorship,
the name of the sole proprietor and the name of the business entity.
(h) A list of all licenses and permits issued to the applicant by any other
state that authorizes the applicant to purchase or possess prescription drugs.
(i) The name, address, and telephone number of a designated representative.
(j) For the person listed in par. (i), a personal information statement that
contains all of the following:
1. The person's date and place of birth.
2. The person's places of residence for the 7-year period immediately preceding
the date of the application.
3. The person's occupations, positions of employment, and offices held during
the 7-year period immediately preceding the date of the application.
4. The name and addresses for each business, corporation, or other entity listed
in subd. 3.
5. A statement indicating whether the person has been, during the 7-year period
immediately preceding the date of the application, the subject of any proceeding
for the revocation of any business or professional license and the disposition
of the proceeding.
6. A statement indicating whether the person has been, during the 7-year period
immediately preceding the date of the application, enjoined by a court, either
temporarily or permanently, from possessing, controlling, or distributing any
prescription drug, and a description of the circumstances surrounding the
injunction.
7. A description of any involvement by the person during the past 7 years with
any business, including investments other than the ownership of stock in a
publicly traded company or mutual fund, that manufactured, administered,
prescribed, distributed, or stored pharmaceutical products or drugs, and a list
of any lawsuits in which such a business was named as a party.
8. A description of any misdemeanor or felony criminal offense of which the
person was, as an adult, found guilty, whether adjudication of guilt was
withheld or the person pleaded guilty or no contest. If the person is appealing
a criminal conviction, the application shall include a copy of the notice of
appeal, and the applicant shall submit a copy of the final disposition of the
appeal not more than 15 days after a final disposition is reached.
9. A photograph of the person taken within the 12-month period immediately
preceding the date of the application.
(k) A statement that each facility used by the applicant for the wholesale
distribution of prescription drugs has been inspected in the 3-year period
immediately preceding the date of the application by the board, a pharmacy
examining board of another state, the National Association of Boards of
Pharmacy, or another accrediting body recognized by the board, with the date of
each such inspection.

3. 450.071.3 (3)
   The board shall grant a license to the applicant to engage in the wholesale
distribution of prescription drugs if all of the following apply:
(a) The applicant pays the fee under s. 440.05 (1) (a).
(b) The inspections conducted pursuant to sub. (2) (k) satisfy requirements
adopted by the board for wholesale distribution facilities.
(c) All of the following apply to each person identified by the applicant as a
designated representative:
1. The person is at least 21 years old.
2. The person has been employed full time for at least 3 years in a pharmacy or
with a wholesale prescription drug distributor in a capacity related to the
dispensing and distribution of, and record keeping related to, prescription
drugs.
3. The person is employed by the applicant full time in a managerial level
position.
4. The person is physically present at the wholesale prescription drug
distributor's facility during regular business hours and is involved in and
aware of the daily operation of the wholesale prescription drug distributor.
This subdivision does not preclude the designated representative from taking
authorized sick leave and vacation time or from being absent from the facility
for other authorized business or personal purposes.
5. The person is actively involved in and aware of the daily operations of the
wholesale distributor.
6. The person is a designated representative for only one applicant at any given
time. This subdivision does not apply if more than one wholesale distributor is
located at the facility and the wholesale distributors located at the facility
are members of an affiliated group.
7. The person has not been convicted of violating any federal, state, or local
law relating to wholesale or retail prescription drug distribution or
distribution of a controlled substance.
8. The person has not been convicted of a felony.
9. The person submits to the department 2 fingerprint cards, each bearing a
complete set of the applicant's fingerprints. The department of justice shall
provide for the submission of the fingerprint cards to the federal bureau of
investigation for the purposes of verifying the identity of the applicant and
obtaining the applicant's criminal arrest and conviction record. This
subdivision does not apply to a person accredited by the national association of
boards of pharmacy's verified-accredited wholesale distributor program.

4. 450.071.3m (3m)
   Notwithstanding subs. (2) and (3), the board may grant a license to engage in
the wholesale distribution of prescription drugs to a person who is domiciled in
another state and is licensed to engage in the wholesale distribution of
prescription drugs in another state, if the board determines that the standards
for licensure in the state in which the person is licensed are at least as
stringent as the standards for licensure under this section.

5. 450.071.4 (4)
   The board may set, by rule, continuing education requirements for designated
representatives under this section.

6. 450.071.5 (5)
   (a) The board shall require every wholesale distributor to submit a surety
bond acceptable to the board in an amount not to exceed $100,000 or other
equivalent means of security acceptable to the board, except that the board
shall not require submission of a bond or other security under this subsection
by a chain pharmacy warehouse that is engaged only in intracompany transfers. A
wholesale distributor that operates more than one facility is not required to
submit a bond or other security under this paragraph for each facility.
(b) The bond or other security under this subsection shall be used to secure
payment of fees or costs that relate to the issuance of a license under this
section and that have not been paid within 30 days after the fees or costs have
become final. No claim may be made against a wholesale distributor's bond or
other security under this subsection more than one year after the date on which
the wholesale distributor's license expires.

7. 450.071.6 (6)
   Applications for licensure under this section are not subject to inspection
or copying under s. 19.35, and may not be disclosed to any person except as
necessary for compliance with and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------