REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 73e33e48-cf06-4e76-8a7b-a5d544988dea

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board
Regulatory Entity: Wisconsin

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: 450
Title: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: 450 072
Description: Wholesale distributors; restrictions on transactions

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. 450.072.1 (1)
    A wholesale distributor shall receive prescription drug returns or exchanges
from a pharmacy, a person authorized to administer or dispense drugs, or a
pharmacy's intracompany warehouse pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
agreement between the wholesale distributor and the pharmacy or chain pharmacy
warehouse. A wholesale distributor that receives returns of expired, damaged,
recalled, or otherwise nonsaleable prescription drugs may distribute the
prescription drugs only to the original manufacturer of the products or to a 3rd
party returns processor. Notwithstanding s. 450.073, returns or exchanges of
saleable or nonsaleable prescription drugs, including any redistribution by a
receiving wholesaler, are not subject to pedigree requirements under s. 450.073
if the returns or exchanges are exempt from the pedigree requirement under the
federal food and drug administration's current guidance on the federal
prescription drug marketing act. A person licensed under s. 450.071 or a
pharmacy or other person authorized to administer or dispense drugs shall ensure
that the person or pharmacy's return process is secure and does not permit the
entry of adulterated and counterfeit products.

2. 450.072.2 (2)
   (a) A manufacturer or wholesale distributor may not deliver prescription
drugs to a person unless the person is licensed under s. 450.071 or 450.06 or by
the appropriate licensing authority of another state or unless the person is a
faculty member of an institution of higher education, as defined in s. 36.32
(1), and is obtaining the prescription drugs for the purpose of lawful research,
teaching, or testing and not for resale. A manufacturer or wholesale distributor
may not deliver prescription drugs to a person that is not known to the
manufacturer or wholesale distributor unless the manufacturer or wholesale
distributor has verified with the board or with the licensing authority of the
state in which the person is located that the person is licensed to receive
prescription drugs or unless the person is a faculty member of an institution of
higher education, as defined in s. 36.32 (1), and is obtaining the prescription
drugs for the purpose of lawful research, teaching, or testing and not for
resale.
(b) A manufacturer or wholesale distributor may distribute a prescription drug
only to the premises listed on the person's license or authorization, except
that a manufacturer or wholesale distributor may distribute the prescription
drugs to an authorized agent of the person at the premises of the manufacturer
or wholesale distributor if all of the following are true:
1. The manufacturer or wholesale distributor documents the authorized agent's
name and address.
2. Distribution to an authorized agent is necessary to promote or protect the
immediate health or safety of the authorized agent's patient.
(c) A manufacturer or wholesale distributor may distribute a prescription drug
to a hospital pharmacy receiving area if a licensed pharmacist or another
authorized recipient signs, at the time of the distribution, a receipt that
shows the type and quantity of prescription drugs distributed. If there is a
discrepancy between the type and quantity of prescription drugs indicated on the
receipt and the type and quantity of prescription drugs received at the hospital
pharmacy receiving area, the discrepancy shall be reported to the manufacturer
or wholesale distributor that distributed the prescription drugs no later than
the day immediately following the date on which the prescription drugs were
distributed to the hospital pharmacy receiving area.
(d) No manufacturer or wholesale distributor may accept payment for, or allow
the use of, a person's credit to establish an account for the purchase of a
prescription drug from any person other than the owner of record, the chief
executive officer, or the chief financial officer identified on the license or
authorization of a person who may receive prescription drugs. Any account
established for the purchase of prescription drugs shall bear the name of the
licensed or authorized person.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------