REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 87cf9e23-50e0-430e-8775-1d402de9c73d

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board
Regulatory Entity: Wisconsin

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: 450
Title: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: 450 073
Description: Wholesale distributors; pedigree

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. 450.073.1 (1)
   A wholesale distributor shall establish and maintain a pedigree for each
prescription drug that leaves, or has ever left, the normal distribution
channel. Before a wholesale distribution of a prescription drug leaves the
normal distribution channel, a wholesale distributor shall provide a copy of the
pedigree to the person receiving the drug. This section does not apply to a
retail pharmacy or pharmacy intracompany warehouse unless the pharmacy or
pharmacy intracompany warehouse engages in the wholesale distribution of
prescription drugs.

2. 450.073.2 (2)
   A pedigree shall contain all necessary identifying information concerning
each sale in the chain of the distribution of the prescription drug from the
manufacturer of the prescription drug or the manufacturers 3rd-party logistics
provider, colicensed product partner, or exclusive distributor until final sale
or distribution to a pharmacy or a person dispensing or distributing the
prescription drug. The pedigree shall include all of the following:
(a) The name, address, telephone number, and, if available, electronic mail
address of each recipient or distributor of the prescription drug in the chain
of distribution, until the final sale or distribution described in sub. (2)
(intro.).
(b) The name and address of each facility from which the prescription drug was
distributed, if different from the address provided in par. (a).
(c) The date of each distribution.
(d) A certification that every recipient has authenticated the pedigree before
distribution of the prescription drug to the next point in the chain of
distribution.
(e) The name, dosage strength, size and number of containers, lot number, and
name of the manufacturer for each prescription drug.

3. 450.073.3 (3)
   The board shall promulgate rules implementing an electronic track and trace
pedigree system. Not later than July 1, 2010, the board shall determine the date
on which the system will be implemented. The system may not be implemented
before July 1, 2011, and the board may delay the implementation date in
increments if the board determines that the technology to implement the system
is not yet universally available across the prescription drug supply chain or is
not capable of adequately protecting patient safety.

4. 450.073.4 (4)
   A person who is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a prescription drug,
including a repackager but not including the original manufacturer of the
prescription drug, who possesses a pedigree for the prescription drug, and who
intends to further distribute the prescription drug, shall verify that each
transaction recorded on the pedigree has occurred before the person may
distribute the prescription drug.

5. 450.073.5 (5)
   (a) A pedigree shall be maintained by a person who purchases prescription
drugs identified in the pedigree and by a wholesale distributor who distributes
prescription drugs identified in the pedigree for not less than 3 years from the
date of sale or distribution.
(b) A person maintaining a pedigree under par. (a) shall make the pedigree
available for inspection or use by a law enforcement officer within 7 days after
the law enforcement officer's request.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------