REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: cd7e87ab-80b7-4b2f-b4de-ff627a8138ac

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board
Regulatory Entity: Wisconsin

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: 450
Title: Chapter 450 Pharmacy Examining Board

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: 450 0135
Description: Using interchangeable biological product in dispensing
prescriptions

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. 450.0135.1 (1)
   Definition. In this section, “interchangeable biological product” means a
biological product that the federal food and drug administration has licensed
and has determined meets the standards for interchangeability pursuant to 42 USC
262 (k) (4) or has determined is therapeutically equivalent as set forth in the
latest edition of or supplement to the federal food and drug administration's
Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations.

2. 450.0135.2 (2)
   Biological product or interchangeable biological product to be used. Except
as provided in sub. (3), a pharmacist shall dispense every prescription using
either the biological product prescribed or an interchangeable biological
product, if the interchangeable biological product is lower in price to the
consumer than the biological product prescribed, and shall inform the consumer
of the options available in dispensing the prescription.

3. 450.0135.3 (3)
   Exception. A prescribing practitioner may indicate, by writing on the face of
the prescription order or, with respect to a prescription order transmitted
electronically, by designating in electronic format the phrase “No
substitutions” or words of similar meaning or the initials “N.S.,” that no
substitution of the biological product prescribed may be made under sub. (2). If
such indication is made, the pharmacist shall dispense the prescription with the
specific biological product prescribed. No preprinted statement regarding
biological product substitution may appear on the face of the prescription
order.

4. 450.0135.4 (4)
   Refilled prescriptions. Prescriptions dispensed with an interchangeable
biological product may be refilled with a different interchangeable biological
product only if the pharmacist informs the consumer of the change.

5. 450.0135.5 (5)
   Communication of biological product dispensed. Within 5 business days after
the dispensing of a biological product, the dispensing pharmacist or the
pharmacist's designee shall do one of the following:
(a) Make an entry of the specific product provided to the patient, including the
name of the product and the manufacturer. Entry into an electronic records
system as described in this paragraph is presumed to provide notice to the
prescribing practitioner. The communication shall be conveyed by making an entry
that is electronically accessible to the prescribing practitioner through one of
the following:
1. An interoperable electronic medical records system.
2. An electronic prescribing technology.
3. A pharmacist benefit management system.
4. A pharmacy record.
(b) If a pharmacist is unable to make an entry as provided in par. (a),
communicate the biological product dispensed to the prescribing practitioner
using facsimile, telephone, electronic transmission, or another prevailing
means, except that communication under this paragraph is not required if any of
the following applies:
1. There is no interchangeable biological product for the product prescribed.
2. A refill of the biological product is not changed from the product dispensed
on the prior filling of the prescription.

6. 450.0135.6 (6)
   Limitation of liability. A pharmacist who dispenses a prescription with an
interchangeable biological product under this section assumes no greater
liability than would be incurred had the pharmacist dispensed the prescription
with the biological product prescribed.

7. 450.0135.7 (7)
   Use of interchangeable biological product in hospitals. Subsections (2) to
(6) do not apply to a pharmacist who dispenses an interchangeable biological
product that is prescribed for a patient in a hospital if the pharmacist
dispenses the interchangeable biological product in accordance with written
guidelines or procedures previously established by a pharmacy and therapeutics
committee of the hospital and approved by the hospital's medical staff and use
of the interchangeable biological product has been approved for a patient during
the period of the patient's stay within the hospital by any of the following:
(a) The patient's individual physician.
(b) The patient's advanced practice nurse prescriber, if the advanced practice
nurse prescriber has entered into a written agreement to collaborate with a
physician.
(c) The patient's physician assistant.

8. 450.0135.8 (8)
   Applicability. This section applies only with respect to prescriptions for
biological products.

9. 450.0135.9 (9)
   Links to be maintained by board. The board shall maintain links on the
department's Internet site to the federal food and drug administration's lists
of all currently approved interchangeable biological products.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------