REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 274599ce-b008-4c05-b6a8-4c23ceefb6f9

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Heart Attack Ready
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CPR
Title: Certification Participation Requirements (CPR)

OVERVIEW:
This chapter includes specific certification participation requirements (CPRs) that apply to the certification process and are required to maintain a certification award. These differ from review eligibility criteria in that the certification process may be initiated even when all CPRs have not yet been met. For an organization seeking certification for the first time, compliance with the CPRs is assessed during the initial review. For the certified program, compliance with these requirements is assessed throughout the certification cycle through on-site reviews, Evidence of Standards Compliance (ESC), and periodic updates of organization-specific data and information. Organizations are either compliant or not compliant with CPRs. When an organization does not comply with a CPR, the organization generally will be assigned a Requirement for Improvement (RFI) similar to noncompliance with a standard. However, refusal to permit performance of an unscheduled or unannounced for-cause review (CPR 3) or falsification of information (CPR 7) will immediately lead to a decision of Not Certified. Any RFI can potentially impact the certification decision and follow-up requirements, as determined by established certification decision rules listed in “The Joint Commission Certification Process“ (CERT) chapter. Failure to resolve an RFI has the potential to lead to loss of certification.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CPR 11
Description: Any individual who provides care, treatment, and services can report concerns about safety or the quality of care to The Joint Commission without retaliatory action from the organization.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CPR.11 EP03 (EP 03)
   The organization takes no disciplinary or punitive action against employees or other individuals who provide care, treatment, and services when they report safety or quality-of-care concerns to The Joint Commission. 

2. CPR.11 EP02 (EP 02)
   The organization informs its staff that it will take no disciplinary or punitive action because an employee or other individual who provides care, treatment, and services reports safety or quality-of-care concerns to The Joint Commission. 

3. CPR.11 EP01 (EP 01)
   The organization educates its staff and other individuals who provide care, treatment, and services that concerns about the safety or quality of care provided in the organization may be reported to The Joint Commission. 

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------