REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 2c2edc02-5cf2-4117-9592-e4eb55441bfe

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Heart Attack Ready
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSSE
Title: Supporting Self-Management (DSSE)

OVERVIEW:
One basic principle of disease management mandates that the patient must be
actively involved in managing the disease. Patients who learn about their
disease, their symptoms, and the warning signs of future complications tend to
be better able to manage their long-term health. Practitioners can strive to
offer high-quality care, but their effort will have greater results when
patients are interested and informed. The standards in this chapter focus on the
following: - Assessing patients’ self-management capabilities - Providing
support for patients in self-management activities - Involving patients in
developing the plan of care - Educating patients in the theory and skills
necessary to manage their disease(s) - Recognizing and supporting self-
management efforts

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSSE 04.01.01
Description: The disease-specific program provides community outreach,
education, and resources.

RATIONALE:
Community outreach activities give the program a better understanding of the
community’s priorities, needs, and socioeconomic constraints or barriers and
ensure that interventions deployed within underserved communities are relevant,
meaningful, scalable, and sustainable. Community outreach activities should
include populations at higher risk for health care disparities.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSSE.04.01.01 EP01 (EP 01)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process to
evaluate the needs of the community it serves.

Requirement Specific to Acute Heart Attack Ready Certification
a. At least every six months, the program participates in state or regional
heart attack–related activities that promote improving heart attack or ST-
elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI) systems of care.

2. DSSE.04.01.01 EP02 (EP 02)
   The disease-specific care program provides at least one community outreach
education activity per year related to the care, treatment, and services it
provides based on the assessed needs of the community.

Requirement Specific to Acute Heart Attack Ready Certification
a. The program develops a minimum of two community outreach activities per year
that include populations that are at higher risk for health care disparities.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------