REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 9c37fa77-dc5b-4ab3-a1af-d444dc5d1a73

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSDF
Title: Delivering or Facilitating Clinical Care (DSDF)

OVERVIEW:
Delivering, facilitating, or improving the delivery of high-quality clinical
care is at the heart of disease management. Patients with a chronic disease
count on practitioners to provide the best care possible. Of course, delivering
or facilitating high-quality care means that practitioners are constantly
striving to improve. Therefore, the standards in this chapter focus on the
following: - Using qualified, competent practitioners - Delivering or
facilitating the delivery of care using evidence-based clinical practice
guidelines (CPGs) - Individualizing care to meet patients’ needs - Managing
comorbidities and concurrently occurring conditions - Initiating discharge
planning and facilitating subsequent care, treatment, and services These
activities require an interdisciplinary approach. Each practitioner’s role and
responsibilities are determined by his or her professional skills, competence,
and credentials; the care provided; and the program’s policies. Note: Clinical
practice guidelines (CPGs) are found in the literature under many names—practice
parameters, practice guidelines, patient care protocols, standards of practice,
clinical pathways, care maps, and so forth. In all cases, CPGs should be
evidence based and effective for the targeted patient populations.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSDF 01.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program develops an interdisciplinary
plan of care for each patient based on their assessed needs and goals.

RATIONALE:
The disease-specific care program actively engages its patients in developing
treatment or care plans and monitors progress to regularly guide revisions. The
plan of care should be made through a collaborative, shared decision-making
process between patient and provider. The plan of care is designed to facilitate
communication among members of the care team and with the patient.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSDF.01.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The disease-specific care program conducts patient assessments and
reassessments based on clinical practice guidelines; within the time frames
defined in the program’s protocols, policies, procedures, and/or order sets; and
in accordance with applicable law and regulation.

Requirements Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) is used for the
initial assessment of patients with acute stroke.
Note: The NIHSS is completed by a qualified member of the team as determined by
the program.
b. A blood glucose level is completed for any patient presenting with stroke
symptoms.
c. Laboratory and other diagnostic tests do not delay the administration of IV
thrombolytic therapy.
Note: Laboratory tests may include a complete blood cell count with platelet
count, coagulation studies (prothrombin time, International Normalized Ratio),
blood chemistries, and troponin.
d. All patients exhibiting stroke symptoms are screened for dysphagia prior to
receiving any oral intake of medication, fluids, or food.
e. The program has a process to notify medical staff and other staff about the
deterioration of a stroke patient that may include but is not limited to changes
in vital signs and neurological status.

2. DSDF.01.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process for
referral when the patient’s comorbid or co-occurring condition(s) is outside the
scope of the program.

3. DSDF.01.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   The disease-specific care program utilizes shared decision-making with the
patient and the family and/or caregiver to make decisions about the patient’s
care, treatment, and services, in accordance with law and regulation.

4. DSDF.01.01.01 EP4 (EP 4)
   The disease-specific care program develops and revises an individualized plan
of care to meet the patient’s care needs and short- and long-term goals. See the
Glossary for a definition of care plan (plan of care).

Requirement Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. Based on prognosis and the patient’s needs and preferences, patients are
referred to palliative care, hospice, or end-of-life services when indicated.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------