REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: b96cafc7-edd6-4d64-9545-316f8b472d48

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSDF
Title: Delivering or Facilitating Clinical Care (DSDF)

OVERVIEW:
Delivering, facilitating, or improving the delivery of high-quality clinical
care is at the heart of disease management. Patients with a chronic disease
count on practitioners to provide the best care possible. Of course, delivering
or facilitating high-quality care means that practitioners are constantly
striving to improve. Therefore, the standards in this chapter focus on the
following: - Using qualified, competent practitioners - Delivering or
facilitating the delivery of care using evidence-based clinical practice
guidelines (CPGs) - Individualizing care to meet patients’ needs - Managing
comorbidities and concurrently occurring conditions - Initiating discharge
planning and facilitating subsequent care, treatment, and services These
activities require an interdisciplinary approach. Each practitioner’s role and
responsibilities are determined by his or her professional skills, competence,
and credentials; the care provided; and the program’s policies. Note: Clinical
practice guidelines (CPGs) are found in the literature under many names—practice
parameters, practice guidelines, patient care protocols, standards of practice,
clinical pathways, care maps, and so forth. In all cases, CPGs should be
evidence based and effective for the targeted patient populations.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSDF 02.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program provides interdisciplinary,
collaborative care, treatment, and services for each patient.

RATIONALE:
The disease-specific care program provides the patient with care, treatment, and
services according to the patient’s individualized plan of care, needs, and
goals. Interdisciplinary, collaborative care helps to meet a patient’s health
care needs by coordinating and increasing efficiency in the delivery of care
from multiple providers and specialists while continually delivering high-
quality, safe care. Care coordination also aims at reducing cost associated with
unnecessary tests or treatments.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSDF.02.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The disease-specific care program provides the patient with care, treatment,
or services based on the assessed need of the patient and within the time frames
defined in the program’s protocols, policies, procedures, and order sets.

2. DSDF.02.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The disease-specific care program evaluates the patient’s response(s) to
care, treatment, and services as defined in the program’s protocols, policies,
procedures, and/or order sets.

3. DSDF.02.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   The disease-specific care program follows its organization’s processes for
hand-off communication related to the patient’s current condition, care,
treatment, medications, and services, as applicable.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------