REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: efb4d2e7-0b32-4682-93b0-75999e951e50

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSDF
Title: Delivering or Facilitating Clinical Care (DSDF)

OVERVIEW:
Delivering, facilitating, or improving the delivery of high-quality clinical
care is at the heart of disease management. Patients with a chronic disease
count on practitioners to provide the best care possible. Of course, delivering
or facilitating high-quality care means that practitioners are constantly
striving to improve. Therefore, the standards in this chapter focus on the
following: - Using qualified, competent practitioners - Delivering or
facilitating the delivery of care using evidence-based clinical practice
guidelines (CPGs) - Individualizing care to meet patients’ needs - Managing
comorbidities and concurrently occurring conditions - Initiating discharge
planning and facilitating subsequent care, treatment, and services These
activities require an interdisciplinary approach. Each practitioner’s role and
responsibilities are determined by his or her professional skills, competence,
and credentials; the care provided; and the program’s policies. Note: Clinical
practice guidelines (CPGs) are found in the literature under many names—practice
parameters, practice guidelines, patient care protocols, standards of practice,
clinical pathways, care maps, and so forth. In all cases, CPGs should be
evidence based and effective for the targeted patient populations.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSDF 03.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program facilitates and coordinates
discharge planning and addresses gaps in continuing care, treatment, and
services after discharge.

RATIONALE:
Specific patient populations may require robust and meticulous discharge
planning. Patients with multiple chronic illnesses are more likely to be
hospitalized, and coordinating their care after discharge can be challenging.
Discharge planning uses an interdisciplinary approach to provide additional
support when patients experience changes in their health status caused by a new
medical condition or worsening of a chronic medical condition complicated by
other comorbid diseases.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSDF.03.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process to
identify any needs the patient may have after discharge or transfer for
psychosocial or physical care, treatment, and services.

2. DSDF.03.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   Prior to discharge, the disease-specific care program arranges or assists in
arranging the services required for the patient after discharge to meet the
patient’s ongoing needs for care, treatment, and services. This is documented.

3. DSDF.03.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   At the time of discharge, the disease-specific care program provides
individuals who are assuming responsibility for the patient’s care with a
summary of the care, treatment, and services the program provided to the
patient.

4. DSDF.03.01.01 EP4 (EP 4)
   At the time of discharge, the disease-specific care program provides the
patient with an individualized discharge plan of care, including referrals and
follow-up appointment(s), based on the patient’s disease-specific care needs.
Note: Discharge information is consistent with the patient’s health literacy
needs, reading and writing skills, comprehension, and measuring or counting
skills. (See also DSSE.03.01.01, EP 3)

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------