REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 2213a8d3-c70d-43dc-a100-4df6f64e1897

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSCT
Title: Clinical Information Management (DSCT)

OVERVIEW:
Delivering or facilitating the delivery of health care is a complex endeavor
that is highly dependent on the exchange of information. Over time, patients may
receive a range of care in multiple settings from multiple practitioners. The
goal of coordinating information across the continuum of care is to manage
information so that care is maximized as well as improved. For this reason the
disease-specific care program should understand its role within a health care
delivery system that spans across settings, services, practitioners, and care
levels. Because the continuum of care encompasses such a large scope of people
and services, disease-specific care programs must maintain the integrity and
security of their data and information as they compile and share it with others.
The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Proactively gathering
and sharing information across the continuum to coordinate care across settings
and over time - Providing easy access to patient-related information -
Preserving confidentiality of patient information - Maintaining data quality and
integrity - Integrating and interpreting data from various sources - Using
aggregate data to support the program's information needs and direction setting
Although efficiency may be improved by computerization and other technologies,
the principles of good information management apply to all processes, whether
paper based or electronic.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSCT 01.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program protects the privacy of health
information.

RATIONALE:
The privacy of health information is a critical information management concern.
Privacy of health information applies to electronic, paper, and verbal
communications. Protecting the privacy of health information is the
responsibility of the entire organization. Organizations protect privacy by
limiting the use of information to only what is needed to provide care,
treatment, and services. Privacy, along with security, results in the
confidentiality of health information. Health information is kept confidential
when the information is secure and its use is limited.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSCT.01.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process to
protect patient information in accordance with the organization’s policy and
applicable law and regulation.

2. DSCT.01.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process to
address violations of the confidentiality or security of the patient’s medical
record in accordance with the organization’s policy and applicable law and
regulation.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------