REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 43dc9c84-03c1-4637-952d-9946dddd90b8

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Stroke Ready Hospital
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSCT
Title: Clinical Information Management (DSCT)

OVERVIEW:
Delivering or facilitating the delivery of health care is a complex endeavor
that is highly dependent on the exchange of information. Over time, patients may
receive a range of care in multiple settings from multiple practitioners. The
goal of coordinating information across the continuum of care is to manage
information so that care is maximized as well as improved. For this reason the
disease-specific care program should understand its role within a health care
delivery system that spans across settings, services, practitioners, and care
levels. Because the continuum of care encompasses such a large scope of people
and services, disease-specific care programs must maintain the integrity and
security of their data and information as they compile and share it with others.
The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Proactively gathering
and sharing information across the continuum to coordinate care across settings
and over time - Providing easy access to patient-related information -
Preserving confidentiality of patient information - Maintaining data quality and
integrity - Integrating and interpreting data from various sources - Using
aggregate data to support the program's information needs and direction setting
Although efficiency may be improved by computerization and other technologies,
the principles of good information management apply to all processes, whether
paper based or electronic.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSCT 02.01.01
Description: The medical record contains complete and accurate documentation of
the disease-specific care, treatment, and services provided.

RATIONALE:
To help ensure that patients receive timely and equitable care, treatment, and
services, the medical record needs to contain accurate documentation of the
course of treatment provided, the collaborative decisions made between providers
and patients, and the outcomes of treatment rendered. Accurate and timely data
in the medical record help reduce medical errors, prevent incorrect diagnoses,
and improve patient outcomes.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSCT.02.01.01 EP1 (EP 1)
   Documentation in the medical record is accurate, timely, and complete in
accordance with the organization’s policy and applicable law and regulation.
Note: Examples of accurate and complete documentation include but are not
limited to accurate dates and times, authentication of record entries, and
completion of time-out procedures, as per the organization’s policy.

2. DSCT.02.01.01 EP2 (EP 2)
   The medical record contains documentation to justify the disease-specific
care, treatment, and services provided to the patient.

Requirements Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. Documentation indicates the reason potentially eligible ischemic stroke
patients did not receive IV thrombolytic therapy.
b. Documentation indicates the reason potentially eligible ischemic stroke
patients were not transferred for endovascular therapy.


3. DSCT.02.01.01 EP3 (EP 3)
   The program makes information about the patient’s care, treatment, and
services available to staff and providers to facilitate continuity of care in
accordance with law and regulation.

Requirement Specific to Acute Stroke Ready Certification
a. The results of diagnostic imaging and laboratory testing are actively
communicated and available to the ordering physician or other licensed
practitioner and stroke team, as applicable.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------