REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 2fde4072-a84d-4601-92da-56c212a4a2db

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Appendix A - Hospitals
Regulatory Entity: CMS

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CMS 482.25
Title: 482.25 Pharmaceutical Services

OVERVIEW:
The hospital must have pharmaceutical services that meet the needs of the
patients.  The institution must have a pharmacy directed by a registered
pharmacist or a drug storage area under competent supervision.  The medical
staff is responsible for developing policies and procedures that minimize drug
errors.  This function may be delegated to the hospital’s organized
pharmaceutical service.

ABOUT:
Interpretive Guidelines §482.25 A hospital must provide pharmaceutical services
that meet the needs of its patients.  The services must include either a
pharmacy that is directed by a pharmacist, or, when appropriate, a drug storage
area that is competently supervised.  The hospital’s medical staff is
responsible for developing pharmaceutical policies and procedures that minimize
the potential for medication errors, but may delegate this function to the
pharmaceutical service. The manner or degree of noncompliance with the
requirements of this Condition and its component standards must be evaluated to
determine whether there is substantial noncompliance with the Condition,
warranting a Condition-level citation. Interpretive Guidelines §482.25 What is
included in pharmaceutical services? Pharmaceutical services encompass the
functions of procuring, storing, compounding, repackaging, and dispensing all
medications, biologicals, chemicals and medication-related devices within the
hospital.  They also include providing medication-related information to care
professionals within the hospital, as well as direct provision of medication-
related care. Meeting patient needs Hospitals must provide pharmaceutical
services that meet the needs of their patients.  The scope and complexity of
pharmaceutical services available in the hospital must be consistent with the
volume and types of patients the hospital serves. Except in unusual
circumstances, the pharmaceutical service is expected to make available in a
timely manner the volume and types of medications typically needed.  These would
be those medications typically prescribed by the hospital’s practitioners for
hospital patients receiving inpatient services, surgical services, diagnostic
services involving medications as a component of testing, and outpatient drug
therapies administered while the patient is in the hospital. Not every hospital
is expected to offer the same level of pharmaceutical services.  For example: •
It would not be uncommon for a psychiatric hospital to maintain a relatively
limited pharmaceutical service, due to minimal need for compounding, and/or
dispensing multiple types and forms of medications and biologicals. • On the
other hand, a short-term acute care hospital with a busy oncology outpatient
service and other complex medical and surgical departments would be expected to
provide a wider range of pharmaceutical services that are ready to be furnished
when needed. Survey Procedures §482.25 • Ask the hospital for evidence of the
scope and complexity of its pharmaceutical services. • Ask how the hospital has
determined that the services meet the needs of its patients. • Ask unit nursing
staff if prescribed medications are routinely available and timely.  If there
are reports of frequent delays or other problems, probe further with the
director of pharmaceutical services.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CMS 482.25 -
Description: Pharmaceutical Services

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CMS 482.25.-.A-0489 (A-0489)
   §482.25 Condition of Participation:  Pharmaceutical Services.
 The hospital must have pharmaceutical services that meet the needs of the
patients.  The institution must have a pharmacy directed by a registered
pharmacist or a drug storage area under competent supervision.  The medical
staff is responsible for developing policies and procedures that minimize drug
errors.  This function may be delegated to the hospital’s organized
pharmaceutical service.

2. CMS 482.25.-.A-0490 (A-0490)
   Standard-level Tag for §482.25 Condition of Participation:  Pharmaceutical
Services.
 The hospital must have pharmaceutical services that meet the needs of the
patients….

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------