REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: b1fb240e-f8ca-41a2-9e6d-251f14a55f8c

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Heart Attack Ready
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSPM
Title: Performance Measurement (DSPM)

OVERVIEW:
Performance improvement (PI) activities should help identify and evaluate
changes that the program must make to enhance performance. Performance
improvement is a continuous process and is dependent on measuring the function
of important processes and services, as well as the final outcomes of the care
rendered. The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Having an
organized, comprehensive approach to PI - Developing a performance improvement
plan - Trending and comparing data to evaluate processes and outcomes - Using
information garnered from measurement data to improve or validate clinical
practice - Using patient-specific, care-related data - Evaluating the patient's
perception of the quality of care - Maintaining data quality and integrity

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSPM 02.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program evaluates data to support
performance improvement. Note: Measurement data must be internally trended over
time and may be compared to an external data source.

RATIONALE:
Data collection allows for comparison and analysis, which is useful in making
decisions and identifying trends or patterns. Collecting and analyzing data
helps the program determine if the performance improvement intervention(s)
brought about the desired results. The data analyses may also help discover
unexpected influences and/or provide the program with credible evidence to show
stakeholders the success of the program’s activities.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSPM.02.01.01 EP01 (EP 01)
   The disease-specific care program analyzes data to support quality and
performance improvement activities at least quarterly.

2. DSPM.02.01.01 EP02 (EP 02)
   The disease-specific care program utilizes aggregate data related to the
processes and outcomes of the care, treatment, and services it provides to guide
the development and implementation of performance improvement goals and
activities.
Note: Examples of aggregate data may include analyses of audited registry data,
as applicable to the program. See the Glossary for a definition of aggregate.

3. DSPM.02.01.01 EP03 (EP 03)
   The disease-specific care program uses aggregate data related to the
patient’s perception of the safety and quality of disease-specific care,
treatment, or services they receive to guide the development and implementation
of performance improvement goals and activities.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------