REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: f73ee13a-d8ce-45af-ab12-e95a5370e8b3

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Heart Attack Ready
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSPM
Title: Performance Measurement (DSPM)

OVERVIEW:
Performance improvement (PI) activities should help identify and evaluate
changes that the program must make to enhance performance. Performance
improvement is a continuous process and is dependent on measuring the function
of important processes and services, as well as the final outcomes of the care
rendered. The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Having an
organized, comprehensive approach to PI - Developing a performance improvement
plan - Trending and comparing data to evaluate processes and outcomes - Using
information garnered from measurement data to improve or validate clinical
practice - Using patient-specific, care-related data - Evaluating the patient's
perception of the quality of care - Maintaining data quality and integrity

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSPM 03.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program utilizes data for performance
improvement.

RATIONALE:
Planning is essential to achieving and sustaining improved performance. Leaders
who evaluate data related to organizational processes and outcomes have a better
awareness of how well they are performing and where opportunities for
improvement exist. After leaders identify the processes and outcomes that will
be the focus for improvement, the leaders needs to create a detailed plan that
will communicate to staff the goals, expectations, data to collect, and
timelines for activity. This detailed plan provides structure and focus for both
leaders and staff that will lead to meaningful and sustainable change. This
sends a message to staff that ongoing attention and vigilance at all levels of
the organization are critical in the quest for health care high reliability. By
continuously evaluating and improving these patient-care processes, the program
can continuously evaluate and improve their processes to adapt to changing
market dynamics, deliver superior products or services, and achieve sustainable
growth. Performance improvement helps programs systematically evaluate their
processes, identify areas for improvement, and implement effective solutions.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSPM.03.01.01 EP01 (EP 01)
   The disease-specific care program utilizes standardized performance
improvement methodology.

2. DSPM.03.01.01 EP02 (EP 02)
   The disease-specific care program utilizes data to develop a written
performance improvement plan that identifies the program’s goals and priorities
that is reviewed at least annually. The performance improvement plan aligns with
the organization’s performance improvement initiatives.

3. DSPM.03.01.01 EP03 (EP 03)
   The disease-specific care program involves staff and members of the
interdisciplinary team in performance improvement planning, goal setting, and
activities.

4. DSPM.03.01.01 EP04 (EP 04)
   At least quarterly, members of the interdisciplinary team participate in
meetings to review the effectiveness of interventions related to operational
issues and performance data and to identify opportunities for improvement.
Documentation includes attendance records and meeting minutes.

Requirements Specific to Acute Heart Attack Ready Certification
a. Representatives of the interdisciplinary team participate in meetings to
review the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment provided to patients with acute
coronary syndrome, including review of cardiac arrest and cardiogenic shock and
any transfer-related issues. Documentation includes attendance records and
meeting minutes.
b. The program’s interdisciplinary team and other practitioners participate in
the review of all major adverse cardiac events including but not limited to the
following:
- Unanticipated death
- Bleeding/hemorrhage occurrences post intervention
- Stroke occurrences post intervention
- Other severe complications as determined by the organization

5. DSPM.03.01.01 EP05 (EP 05)
   The disease-specific care program takes action when performance improvement
activities are not achieved or sustained. These initiatives are documented in
the program’s performance improvement plan.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------