REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: eb8a8302-5b65-4549-b41c-d0556b602326

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Acute Heart Attack Ready
Regulatory Entity: TJC

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: DSPM
Title: Performance Measurement (DSPM)

OVERVIEW:
Performance improvement (PI) activities should help identify and evaluate
changes that the program must make to enhance performance. Performance
improvement is a continuous process and is dependent on measuring the function
of important processes and services, as well as the final outcomes of the care
rendered. The standards in this chapter focus on the following: - Having an
organized, comprehensive approach to PI - Developing a performance improvement
plan - Trending and comparing data to evaluate processes and outcomes - Using
information garnered from measurement data to improve or validate clinical
practice - Using patient-specific, care-related data - Evaluating the patient's
perception of the quality of care - Maintaining data quality and integrity

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: DSPM 04.01.01
Description: The disease-specific care program reports relevant data.

RATIONALE:
Data reporting enables the disease-specific care program to demonstrate to its
key stakeholders and organization leaders how the program has achieved and
improved outcomes of care; how it continues to drive operational excellence,
enhance customer value, and achieve cost savings; and how it remains market
competitive as determined by the program’s overall goals and objectives aligning
the program to the organization’s values.

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. DSPM.04.01.01 EP01 (EP 01)
   The disease-specific care program develops and implements a process to
provide information about performance improvement activities, including relevant
data and outcomes, to internal staff, organizational leaders, and external
providers, as applicable to the program.

Requirements Specific to Acute Heart Attack Ready Certification
a. The program collects data related to emergency medical services (EMS) and
interfacility transport agencies and provides feedback on all ST-elevated
myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients and other cardiac patients as determined
by the program.
b. The program collaborates with receiving and referring hospitals to facilitate
feedback related to transfer processes and other outcomes of care on all ST-
elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients and other cardiac patients as
determined by the program.

2. DSPM.04.01.01 EP02 (EP 02)
   The disease-specific care program reports the results of aggregate data to
The Joint Commission at the required intervals.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------