REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: 021da050-2d96-4910-af5a-7b58cf00a0dd

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Appendix A - Hospitals
Regulatory Entity: CMS

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CMS 482.22
Title: 482.22 Medical Staff

OVERVIEW:
The hospital must have an organized medical staff that operates under bylaws
approved by the governing body, and which is responsible for the quality of
medical care provided to patients by the hospital.

ABOUT:
Interpretive Guidelines §482.22 The hospital must have one medical staff for the
entire hospital (including all campuses, provider-based locations, satellites,
remote locations, etc.).  For example, a multi-campus hospital may not have a
separately organized medical staff for each campus.  On the other hand, in the
case of a hospital system, it is permissible for the system to have a unified
and integrated medical staff (hereafter referred to as a “unified medical
staff”) for multiple, separately certified hospitals.  The medical staff must be
organized and integrated as one body that operates under one set of bylaws
approved by the governing body.  These medical staff bylaws must apply equally
to all practitioners within each category of practitioners at all locations of
the hospital and to the care provided at all locations of the hospital.  The
medical staff is responsible for the quality of medical care provided to
patients by the hospital. Survey Procedures §482.22 Surveyors assess the manner
and degree of noncompliance with the standards within this condition to
determine whether there is condition-level noncompliance.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CMS 482.22 (a)
Code: 482.22
Description: Eligibility and process for appointment to medical staff

---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CMS 482.22.(a).A-0341 (A-0341)
   §482.22(a)(2) - The medical staff must examine the credentials of all
eligible candidates for medical staff membership and make recommendations to the
governing body on the appointment of the candidates in accordance with State
law, including scope-of-practice laws, and the medical staff bylaws, rules, and
regulations.  A candidate who has been recommended by the medical staff and who
has been appointed by the governing body is subject to all medical staff bylaws,
rules, and regulations, in addition to the requirements contained in this
section.

2. CMS 482.22.(a).0 (0)
   The medical staff must be composed of doctors of medicine or osteopathy and,
in accordance with State law, may also be composed of other practitioners
appointed by the governing body.

3. CMS 482.22.(a).0 (0)
   The medical staff must periodically conduct appraisals of its members.

4. CMS 482.22.(a).A-0340 (A-0340)
   §482.22(a)(1) - The medical staff must periodically conduct appraisals of its
members.


5. CMS 482.22.(a).2 (2)
   The medical staff must examine credentials of candidates for
medical staff membership and make recommendations to the governing body
on the appointment of the candidates.


6. CMS 482.22.(a).A-0342 (A-0342)
   §482.22(a)(3)  When telemedicine services are furnished to the hospital’s
patients through an agreement with a distant-site hospital, the governing body
of the hospital whose patients are receiving the telemedicine services may
choose, in lieu of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this
section, to have its medical staff rely upon the credentialing and privileging
decisions made by the distant-site hospital when making recommendations on
privileges for the individual distant-site physicians and practitioners
providing such services, if the hospital’s governing body ensures, through its
written agreement with the distant-site hospital, that all of the following
provisions are met:
  (i)  The distant-site hospital providing the telemedicine services is a
Medicare-participating hospital.
  (ii)  The individual distant-site physician or practitioner is privileged at
the distant-site hospital providing the telemedicine services, which provides a
current list of the distant-site physician’s or practitioner’s privileges at the
distant-site hospital.
  (iii)  The individual distant-site physician or practitioner holds a license
issued or recognized by the State in which the hospital whose patients are
receiving the telemedicine services is located.
  (iv)  With respect to a distant-site physician or practitioner, who holds
current privileges at the hospital whose patients are receiving the telemedicine
services, the hospital has evidence of an internal review of the distant-site
physician’s or practitioner’s performance of these privileges and sends the
distantsite hospital such performance information for use in the periodic
appraisal of the distant-site physician or practitioner.  At a minimum, this
information must include all adverse events that result from the telemedicine
services provided by the distantsite physician or practitioner to the hospital’s
patients and all complaints the hospital has received about the distant-site
physician or practitioner.

7. CMS 482.22.(a).A-0343 (A-0343)
   §482.22(a)(4)  When telemedicine services are furnished to the hospital’s
patients through an agreement with a distant-site telemedicine entity, the
governing body of the hospital whose patients are receiving the telemedicine
services may choose, in lieu of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2)
of this section, to have its medical staff rely upon the credentialing and
privileging decisions made by the  distant- site telemedicine entity when making
recommendations on privileges for the individual distant-site physicians and
practitioners providing such services, if the hospital’s governing body ensures,
through its written agreement with the distantsite telemedicine entity, that the
distant-site telemedicine entity furnishes services that, in accordance with
§482.12(e), permit the hospital to comply with all applicable conditions of
participation for the contracted services. The hospital’s governing body must
also ensure, through its written agreement with the distant-site telemedicine
entity, that all of the following provisions are met:
 (i)  The distant-site telemedicine entity’s medical staff credentialing and
privileging process and standards at least meet the standards at §482.12(a)(1)
through (a)(7) and §482.22(a)(1) through (a)(2).
 (ii)  The individual distant-site physician or practitioner is privileged at
the distantsite telemedicine entity providing the telemedicine services, which
provides the hospital with a current list of the distant-site physician’s or
practitioner’s privileges at the distant-site telemedicine entity.
 (iii)  The individual distant-site physician or practitioner holds a license
issued or recognized by the State in which the hospital whose patients are
receiving such telemedicine services is located.
 (iv)  With respect to a distant-site physician or practitioner, who holds
current privileges at the hospital whose patients are receiving the telemedicine
services, the hospital has evidence of an internal review of the distant-site
physician’s or practitioner’s performance of these privileges and sends the
distant-site
telemedicine entity such performance information for use in the periodic
appraisal of the distant-site physician or practitioner.  At a minimum, this
information must include all adverse events that result from the telemedicine
services provided by the distant-site physician or practitioner to the
hospital’s patients, and all complaints the hospital has received about the
distant-site physician or practitioner.

8. CMS 482.22.(a).A-0339 (A-0339)
   §482.22(a) Standard:  Eligibility and Process for Appointment to Medical
Staff
 The medical staff must be composed of doctors of medicine or osteopathy. In
accordance with State law, including scope-of-practice laws, the medical staff
may also include other categories of physicians (as listed at §482.12(c)(1)) and
nonphysician practitioners who are determined to be eligible for appointment by
the governing body.

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------