REGULATORY STANDARD DOCUMENT
Document ID: d1f4a208-6c2d-4eea-bda4-07c5b9586a58

---------- REGULATION ----------
Name: Appendix A - Hospitals
Regulatory Entity: CMS

---------- CHAPTER ----------
Name: CMS 482.22
Title: 482.22 Medical Staff

OVERVIEW:
The hospital must have an organized medical staff that operates under bylaws
approved by the governing body, and which is responsible for the quality of
medical care provided to patients by the hospital.

ABOUT:
Interpretive Guidelines §482.22 The hospital must have one medical staff for the
entire hospital (including all campuses, provider-based locations, satellites,
remote locations, etc.).  For example, a multi-campus hospital may not have a
separately organized medical staff for each campus.  On the other hand, in the
case of a hospital system, it is permissible for the system to have a unified
and integrated medical staff (hereafter referred to as a “unified medical
staff”) for multiple, separately certified hospitals.  The medical staff must be
organized and integrated as one body that operates under one set of bylaws
approved by the governing body.  These medical staff bylaws must apply equally
to all practitioners within each category of practitioners at all locations of
the hospital and to the care provided at all locations of the hospital.  The
medical staff is responsible for the quality of medical care provided to
patients by the hospital. Survey Procedures §482.22 Surveyors assess the manner
and degree of noncompliance with the standards within this condition to
determine whether there is condition-level noncompliance.

---------- STANDARD ----------
Name: CMS 482.22 (b)
Code: 482.22
Description: Medical staff Organization and Accountability



---------- ELEMENTS ----------
1. CMS 482.22.(b).0 (0)
   The medical staff must be well organized and accountable to the governing
body for the quality of the medical care provided to patients.

2. CMS 482.22.(b).2 (2)
   If the medical staff has an executive committee, a majority of the members of
the committee must be doctors of medicine or osteopathy.

3. CMS 482.22.(b).3 (3)
   The responsibility for organization and conduct of the medical staff must be
assigned only to one of the following:
(i) An individual doctor of medicine or osteopathy.
(ii) A doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine, when permitted by State law
of the State in which the hospital is located.
(iii) A doctor of podiatric medicine, when permitted by State law of the State
in which the hospital is located.

4. CMS 482.22.(b).1 (1)
   The medical staff must be organized in a manner approved by the governing
body.

5. CMS 482.22.(b).2 (2)
   If the medical staff has an executive committee, a majority of
the members of the committee must be doctors of medicine or osteopathy.


6. CMS 482.22.(b).A-0347 (A-0347)
   §482.22(b) Standard:  Medical Staff Organization and Accountability
 The medical staff must be well organized and accountable to the governing body
for the quality of the medical care provided to the patients.

(1)  The medical staff must be organized in a manner approved by the governing
body.

(2)  If the medical staff has an executive committee, a majority of the members
of the committee must be doctors of medicine or osteopathy.

(3)  The responsibility for organization and conduct of the medical staff must
be assigned only to one of the following:
 (i) An individual doctor of medicine or osteopathy.  (ii) A doctor of dental
surgery or dental medicine, when permitted by State law of the State in which
the hospital is located. (iii) A doctor of podiatric medicine, when permitted by
State law of the State in which the hospital is located.

7. CMS 482.22.(b).3 (3)
   The responsibility for organization and conduct of the medical
staff must be assigned only to an individual doctor of medicine or
osteopathy or, when permitted by State law of the State in which the
hospital is located, a doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine.


8. CMS 482.22.(b).A-0348 (A-0348)
   §482.22(b)(4) -  If a hospital is part of a hospital system consisting of
multiple separately certified hospitals and the system elects to have a unified
and integrated medical staff for its member hospitals, after determining that
such a decision is in accordance with all applicable State and local laws, each
separately certified hospital must demonstrate that:….

9. CMS 482.22.(b).A-0351 (A-0351)
   [§482.22(b)(4) - If a hospital is part of a hospital system consisting of
multiple separately certified hospitals and the system elects to have a unified
and integrated medical staff for its member hospitals, after determining that
such a decision is in accordance with all applicable State and local laws, each
separately certified hospital must demonstrate that:]
 (iii) - The unified and integrated medical staff is established in a manner
that takes into account each member hospital’s unique circumstances and any
significant differences in patient populations and services offered in each
hospital; and….

10. CMS 482.22.(b).A-0352 (A-0352)
   [§482.22(b)(4) - If a hospital is part of a hospital system consisting of
multiple separately certified hospitals and the system elects to have a unified
and integrated medical staff for its member hospitals, after determining that
such a decision is in accordance with all applicable State and local laws, each
separately certified hospital must demonstrate that:]
 (iv)  The unified and integrated medical staff establishes and implements
policies and procedures to ensure that the needs and concerns expressed by
members of the medical staff, at each of its separately certified hospitals,
regardless of practice or location, are given due consideration, and that the
unified and integrated medical staff has mechanisms in place to ensure that
issues localized to particular hospitals are duly considered and addressed.

11. CMS 482.22.(b).A-0349 (A-0349)
   [§482.22(b)(4) - If a hospital is part of a hospital system consisting of
multiple separately certified hospitals and the system elects to have a unified
and integrated medical staff for its member hospitals, after determining that
such a decision is in accordance with all applicable State and local laws, each
separately certified hospital must demonstrate that:]

(i)  The medical staff members of each separately certified hospital in the
system (that is, all medical staff members who hold specific privileges to
practice at that hospital) have voted by majority, in accordance with medical
staff bylaws, either to accept a unified and integrated medical staff structure
or to opt out of such a structure and to maintain a separate and distinct
medical staff for their respective hospital;

12. CMS 482.22.(b).A-350 (A-350)
   [§482.22(b)(4) - If a hospital is part of a hospital system consisting of
multiple separately certified hospitals and the system elects to have a unified
and integrated medical staff for its member hospitals, after determining that
such a decision is in accordance with all applicable State and local laws, each
separately certified hospital must demonstrate that:]
 (ii) - The unified and integrated medical staff has bylaws, rules, and
requirements that describe its processes for self-governance, appointment,
credentialing, privileging, and oversight, as well as its peer review policies
and due process rights guarantees, and which include a process for the members
of the medical staff of each separately certified hospital (that is, all medical
staff members who hold specific privileges to practice at that hospital) to be
advised of their rights to opt out of the unified and integrated medical staff
structure after a majority vote by the members to maintain a separate and
distinct medical staff for their hospital;

---------- END OF DOCUMENT ----------